Orientation Day information

YES International College

Learning Management System (LMS) - Moodle

LEARNING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (MOODLE)

Access Link:
https://elearning.yes.edu.my/login/index.php

(Link also available on Moodle view)

Examinations / Final Exam

Responsibilities: 1. Prepare examination schedule and venue 2. Produce
docket slip 3. Keep records of all student’s assessment 4. Produce exam
result

Method of Assessments

  Course Work                        Final Examinations
  ---------------------------------- --------------------
  Assignment (Individual or Group)   
  Test                               
  Quizzes                            
  Presentation                       
  Project Work                       

Graduation Requirements

Certificate Programme

-   Pass all required modules
-   Obtain a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 2.00
-   Pass the three (3) required MQA compulsory subjects
    → Student will be able to progress to the degree programme.

Diploma Programmes

-   Pass all required modules
-   Obtain a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 2.00
-   Pass the three (3) required MQA compulsory subjects

→ Students with CGPA 2.00 and above may receive advance standing into
Year 2 of the degree program.

Note: Students are required to fill in the Completion Form.

Important Note

A student who fails to meet the minimum CGPA to graduate will be given
one (1) to two (2) semesters to clear failed modules and/or improve CGPA
below 2.00.

If the student is unable to achieve the minimum CGPA within the
stipulated time, they will only receive a Certificate of Attendance for
the program attended.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Attendance

Malaysian Government Regulation
All students are required to attend a minimum of 80% of classes to
maintain the validity of their student pass.

Consequence:
Failure to meet this requirement may result in cancellation of your
student pass by the Malaysian Government.

→ First warning letter issued to students below 80% attendance before
further action.

Student Visa Renewal Requirements

-   Pay Renewal Fee promptly (Inquiries → Bursary Department)
-   Attendance must be 80% and above
-   Academic Performance: Minimum CGPA of 2.00 and above
-   English Proficiency Certificate (valid IELTS, Linguaskill, PTE,
    MUET, etc.)

Timetable & Academic Calendar

(Refer to provided Academic Calendar and Timetable)

Discipline

Student Dress Code

Students must maintain a dress code that reflects: - Sensitivities of
Malaysian society - Self-esteem - Appropriateness to activities

Prohibited: - Revealing attire (hot pants, miniskirts, singlets) -
Attire with offensive or obscene words/pictures

Footwear:
Slippers are not allowed on campus.

Disciplinary Actions

Depending on the nature and severity of misconduct, the Management may
impose one or a combination of the following:

-   Counseling session
-   Verbal warning
-   Written warning
-   Final written warning
-   Suspension
-   Expulsion
