Student Handbook

1. GENERAL INFORMATION

College Profile

As one of Asia’s top academic institutions, Yes International College
has graduated many of highly competitive and desirable graduates with
its unique approach to education and professional development. It is a
member of the Yes Education Group – an award-winning educational
organisation that has made tremendous academic achievements since its
founding in 1994, winning accolades such as the SME 100: Fast Moving
Companies Award, Golden Bull Award, the National Mark of Malaysia Brand
and several SME Excellence Awards for its outstanding contributions to
the field of education.

All courses are geared to groom students for top-level positions, and
students can look forward to a stimulating and vibrant learning
environment under the tutelage of a dedicated teaching staff and an
innovative curriculum.

Preparing Students for Today’s Competitive Job Market

What truly sets Yes International College apart is its Success
Programme, the first of its kind in Asia. Today’s employers are looking
for graduates who are not only academically qualified but who also
demonstrate strong people skills to enable effective contribution to the
growth of the employing organisation. This pressing demand has led Yes
International College to pioneer a holistic education concept, which has
earned the college a solid reputation for developing their students into
well-rounded assets. The Success Programme comprises of two key
components: The Success Forum and the Success Camp.

The Success Forum is a monthly event conducted by the Founder and
Managing Director of Yes International College himself, Datuk Eric
Chong, also known as the Success Mentor. Regardless of their fields of
study, students are guided to master the skills needed to achieve
success in their future careers. Assisting Datuk Chong are the Success
Icons, an exciting ensemble of the most prominent names in the country’s
leading industries. In these sessions, students gain invaluable skills
development and priceless insights from the world’s most successful
professionals.

Students can also expect a focus on their personal development in the
form of the four-day Success Camp. The camp is an interactive experience
designed to bring out the leader and team player in each student through
fun and thought-provoking activities.

2. COLLEGE FACILITIES

2.1 The College Library

2.1.1

The library facilities will normally be open on all College days, Monday
to Friday, from 9.00am to 6.00pm.

2.1.2

The library has tailored its rules and procedures to meet the needs of
the students. Students are advised to refer to these for further
information.

2.2 Computer Labs

2.2.1

Computers have been made available for the purpose of conducting
courses. As such, please note that priority of computer use will be
given for such purposes.

2.2.2

Students can book a reservation for use of a terminal when the lab is
not in use. Bookings are to be made with the Library Officer.

2.2.3

The computer lab has tailored its rules and procedures to meet the needs
of its students. Students are advised to refer to these accordingly.

3.0 ACADEMIC POLICIES

3.1 The Academic Calendar

3.1.1

While planning out its academic calendar, the College may make some
discretionary changes to suit the local environment. Students are
advised to refer to the current academic calendar available from the
Registry.

3.1.2

The semesters will typically begin in January, May and September of each
year. Long semesters are 17 weeks long and short semesters are 9 weeks
long.

3.2 Deferment

3.2.1

Student may apply for deferment of study anytime before the final
examination week. Each application is for one semester of deferment.

3.2.2

Students are required to inform the College in writing within 2 weeks
after the registration of the new semester if they wish to apply for a
second deferment.

3.2.3

Students who seek for deferment are required to fill in the “Application
for Deferment of Studies Form”.

3.2.4

Maximum duration allowed for deferment is 1 year or 3 consecutive
semesters provided that the students can still complete within the
maximum period of study allowed.

3.3 Withdrawal

3.3.1

Upon graduation or withdrawal from the College, a withdrawal/clearance
form must be submitted. Students are given a maximum of 2 following
semesters to request for the Refundable Deposits. Otherwise, the
refundable deposits will be forfeited.

3.3.2

Should students not inform the Registry Department of their withdrawal,
the College will continue charging tuition fees until the Finance Office
receive an official notification from students. Any refundable deposits
will first be used to offset any outstanding tuition fees.

3.3.3

Students applying for the PTPTN Loan or any other loan MUST pay the
first semester tuition fees and subsequent fees until their loan has
been approved.

3.3.4

Students are required to settle all outstanding fees before leaving the
institution.

3.4 Change of Programme

3.4.1

If students wish to change programmes, their grades obtained for
subjects taken in the previous programme can be transferred to the new
programme and it will be counted in the GPA and CGPA calculations.

3.4.2

Grades are transferred based on the structure of the new programme.

3.4.3

Students will be registering as a first semester student of the new
programme or semester status will be determined based on the number of
subjects of which grade transfer is applicable.

3.4.4

Student can apply for change programme ONCE and only allowed to do so in
the first semester of their study.

3.4.5

Maximum study duration is based on the new programme.

3.4.6

Students may apply to change programme within two (2) weeks after the
commencement of the semester. Processing fees will be required for the
application.

3.5 Add/Drop Subjects

3.5.1 Add Subject

3.5.1.1

Students may apply to add subjects upon approval from the Programme
Leader within two (2) weeks after the beginning of the semester.

3.5.1.2

Approval for addition of subjects depends on:
i. The availability of places of classes concerned.
ii. The credit load per semester. Students are advised not to register
more than 18 credit hours per semester (long semester) and 9 credit
(short semester). Students are only allowed to register more than 18
credit hours in specific situations where a written approval is obtained
from the Head of School.

3.5.2 Drop Subject

3.5.2.1

Subjects may be dropped upon approval from the Faculty Head.
Applications to drop subjects must be done within seven (7) week in the
long semester or three (3) week in the short semester.

Students who seek for Add and Drop subject are required to fill in the
“Application for Add and Drop Form”.

3.6 Credit Transfer

3.6.1

Students may apply for transfer of credits based on the following rules
and regulations:

3.6.2

Application shall be made within the first semester at the College for
new students.

3.6.3

Application form must be submitted to the Programme Coordinator and must
be accompanied by the original transcripts/results slip and syllabus or
outline of the subjects from the relevant institutions.

3.6.4

The content of the subject offered for credit transfer must cover at
least 80% syllabus of the corresponding subject at Yes International
College and accredited by MQA or at least obtained the minimum standard.

3.6.5

The grade or grade point obtained for the course applied must not be
less than grade C or 2.00 grade point.

3.6.6

Credit transfer is applicable if the date of the result of the subject
concerned was obtained within the last 5 years.

3.6.7

The maximum transferable credit is 30% of the credit hours required for
graduation in the programme.

3.6.8

Students who seek for credit transfer are required to fill in the
“Application for Credit Transfer Form” and pay the relevant credit
transfer fee.

3.6.9

The total credit hours for a course which has been granted transfer of
credit will be counted as part of the minimum total credit hours to
graduate.

3.6.10

The transcript for both the advanced standing categories is recorded as
“Exempted” and this does not contribute to or affect any grade point
average (GPA) calculation.

3.6.11

Students obtaining credit transfer/subject replacement and receiving a
GPA less than 2.00 at the end of the first semester at the College will
be given a written warning to improve his/her GPA.

3.7 Late Payment

Students are required to settle their fees BEFORE commencement of each
semester. They are required to settle the fees within the first 7 days
of the month or 7 days from the date of payment. Failure to pay fees on
time may result in the student being barred from classes, examinations
and usage of College facilities. Penalty may be charged for late
payment.

3.8 Assessments

3.8.1

Assessments measure learning outcomes in terms of depth and knowledge
acquired as well as understanding and application of programme content.

3.8.2

All Modules will be assessed. Assessment consists mainly of two
components - coursework and final examinations. The proportion of marks
for each of the two components varies from one module to another.
Details of the allocation of marks are normally given by the lecturer in
their introductory lecture. The coursework component may include one or
any combination of assignments (individual or group), tests, quizzes,
presentations and project work.

3.8.3

All examinations are conducted by the Examinations Unit of the Registry
Department which enforces internationally accepted standards in the
conduct of all the examinations under its jurisdiction.

3.8.4

The School’s Board of Examiner’s (BOE) oversees procedures that ensure
the integrity of the examination process. Also, the BOEs confirm the
marks and progression decisions for individual students, and recommends,
where appropriate, final classification awards. The decision arrived
during the School BOE meetings are then tabled for consideration by the
Head of School / Programme Coordinator, at the College Academic Board
for final approval.

3.8.5

Yes International College requires students to adhere to submission
deadlines for any form of assessment. Penalties are applied in relation
to unauthorized late submission of work.

3.8.6

Coursework submitted within one (1) week after the deadline will be
accepted. Late submission of assignment work will result in the student
being penalized 5 marks for the first day and 1 mark per day thereafter.

3.8.7

Work Submission of assignment work by the due date is compulsory and
re-submission of work is acceptable and received 50% pass rate.

3.8.8

Extension of time for submission of the assignment work may be granted
only if its accompanied by a medical certificate. Approval for extension
of submission beyond the deadline can only be granted by the Head of
School.

3.8.9 Grading scheme

Yes International College operates a standard grading scheme to denote
student performance. Students are expected to be familiar with the
grading system of their respective programmes in their Schools. While a
40% passing mark may -in general- be adopted, students are advised to
confirm this with their Heads of School/Programme Coordinator, for their
own area of study.

3.9 Progression of Awards

3.9.1

A student who passes all subjects in a semester at the first attempt
will progress to the following semester.

3.9.2

A student who has accumulated failed subjects of up to 9 credits hours
or 3 subjects will not be allowed to progress to the next semester.

3.9.3

A student will be given a maximum of three (3) attempts to pass a
subject. Subsequent to failure on the first attempt, the student will be
required to do a reassessment (if condition 2.5.4 is met) or a repeat at
the first available opportunity.

3.9.4

A student who fails marginally in any subject with marks between 36% and
49% will be given an opportunity to do a reassessment.

3.9.5

A reassessment can be in the form of a written examination, coursework
or both as deemed appropriate by the Board of Examiners. Normally
reassessments will take place a week after the results are published.
The marks awarded shall not exceed 50%.

3.9.6

A student who obtains less than 50% at the first attempt or fails after
the reassessment will be required to repeat the subject.

3.9.7

If they are repeating a subject, student will attend classes and re-do
all the assessments for the subject. The normal tuition fee applies.

3.9.8

Student will be allowed to take additional subject with the repeat
subject provided that:
- total credit hours in the semester does not exceed 18 for the long
semester and 9 for the short semester.
- accumulated failed modules do not exceed 9 credit hours or 3 modules.

3.9.9

A student with outstanding failures after all opportunities of
reassessment and repeat have been exhausted will be required to leave
the programme.

3.10 Appeals against exam results

3.10.1

A student who is dissatisfied with the result of an examination is
required to submit a formal application of appeal to the Registry
Department, within one week of the release of their final exam results.

3.10.2

All appeals must be made in writing. The application must be accompanied
by an administration fee (non-returnable).

3.10.3

Academic Appeals can be submitted on one or both of the following
grounds:
- Administrative error or irregularity in conduct of assessment in
contravention of the assessment regulations.
- Details of exceptional circumstances which were, for good reason, not
previously available to the appropriate Boards of Examiners.

3.10.4

The Faculty Head will authorise an investigation to establish whether
there is a prima facie case or not. Where a case is established,
corrective action will be taken.

3.10.5

The appeal and subsequent results will be forwarded to the Board of
Examiners.

3.10.6

The outcome will be made known to the student within 2 weeks of filing
the appeal. The BOE decision is final.

4. STUDENT AFFAIRS

4.1 Records and Information

4.1.1 Registration Procedure

4.1.1.1

Potential students are to seek academic counselling from the College’s
personnel before making a decision to enroll into a particular
programme. The Faculty Head/Programme Leader will be able to assist the
student to understand the general rules, conditions, career prospect and
the tuition fees.

4.1.1.2

The student must have the minimum entry requirements to enrol in the
course, and the College has the discretion to deny entry if the minimum
requirements are not met by the applicant.

4.1.1.3

The student must fill out all the relevant particulars in the
application form available at the Reception Counter, with attachments
copies of the relevant documents such as NRIC/Passport, academic
certificates, school leaving certificate, testimonials etc. These items
will automatically be filed into the student’s personal file.

4.1.1.4

Upon the acceptance of the student by the College the student is to
remit the stipulated fees to the Bursary. Student will receive their
student I.D., timetable and the orientation kit after making their first
payment.

4.1.1.5

It is compulsory for new students to attend the Orientation session.
They will have a better understanding of the general rules and
regulations as well as to get to know the academic staffs and the
facilities provided to them. They will also have the chance to meet up
with the student council.

4.1.2 Behaviour Code for Students

All Students are expected to abide by the behaviour Code for students as
found in Section 7 of this Handbook.

4.1.3 Rules, Regulations & Disciplinary Procedure

The College has Rules, Regulations and the Disciplinary procedure as in
Section 8 of this Handbook and these will be applicable to all the
registered students of the College.

4.1.4 Student Orientation

Attendance during Orientation is compulsory for all new students as it
gives an overview of the College and its expectations of as well as
services for the students.

4.2 Counselling Services

4.2.1 Course Counselling

Students will be able to seek counsel on a host of academic matters from
their respective Programme Leader.

4.2.2 Career Counselling

The Programme Leader is available to give helpful advice on suitable
career pathways and opportunities for further studies.

4.2.3 Personal Counselling

Students who face personal / emotional problems are given support by our
Mentor lecturer or counsellors, and if necessary, students are referred
for professional help.

4.2.4 Health Services / Insurance

Information on the various health services for students is available, as
all registered students of the College are encouraged to have an
insurance policy.

4.2.5 Personal Development Skills

Talks, seminars, demonstrations, practice sessions, visits etc are
organised periodically for the personal development of students such as,
leadership skills, department and study skills for the students.

4.3 Student Services

4.3.1 Scholarships / Loans / Financial Aid

Information on all the available scholarships, loans and other financial
aids is available at the Bursary Department. The College assists
students in their application and helps to liaise with the relevant
bodies.

4.3.2 Job Placement & Industrial Training

All students in Programmes that requires practical training will be
placed for internship in the relevant industries.

Job placement is also to facilitate students who are in need to get a
job after they graduated.

4.3.3 Accommodation

The College provide hostel to students. Student will have to fill-out
the ‘Hostel Application Form’ and submit to the Student Affairs
Department.

4.3.4 Convenience Services

Food outlets, transport facilities and other convenience services can
all be found close to the College.

4.4 Student Activities

4.4.1 Student Council/ Committee Club

The students will elect their representatives for the Club. The elected
members meet when necessary to help the College in organizing student
activities and services.

4.4.2 Student Lounge / Recreational Activities

Student Lounge is available and open for students for gathering,
studying and relaxing between classes. Recreational activities will be
organized from time to time.

4.4.3 Tours & Visits

The College organises tours and visits from time to time, for both
recreational and educational purposes.

4.4.4 Sports Clubs

These clubs are formed according to the interest of the students. Sports
Clubs will have on going activities throughout the year. Students who
wish to form new clubs should refer to the Student Affairs Office.

4.4.5 Ad hoc Committees

An ad-hoc committee may be formed with the approval of the College to
organize particular activities. The organising committee ceases to
function after the activity is completed.

4.4.6 Competitions / Carnivals

The Student Club, under the College’s supervision, will organise
competitions - sports, cultural, literary - for the benefit of students
within the college.

4.4.7 Counselling Services

Students who have academic/personal problems may approach the College
for help.

5. GUIDELINES FOR STUDENT ORGANISATIONS

5.1 Types of Student Organisations

5.1.1 Student Council

The Student Council consists of representatives of all registered
students of the College.

5.1.2 Sports Clubs

If there are more than 10 students interested in actively participating
in a particular branch of sports, a club may be formed at the College.

5.1.3 Community Service / Interest / Religious Societies

If there are more than 10 students interested in any particular field,
which is consistent with the values of education, they may register a
society to pursue their interests.

5.2 Objectives

5.2.1

To plan and organise various activities that are consistent with the
educational objectives for the students of the College.

5.2.2

To foster closer relationship among students from the various
disciplines, racial and religious backgrounds studying at the College.

5.2.3

To cater for the need of informal and recreational activities of
students.

5.2.4

To provide an avenue for students to show their talents, leadership
qualities, organising abilities and their creativity beyond the lecture
rooms.

5.2.5

To ensure that a holistic education takes place at the College.

5.2.6

To be an avenue to channel the enthusiasm and energy of the students.

5.2.7

To inculcate a healthy environment where differences in ability,
opinion, inclinations and background are harnessed towards integration,
and tolerance.

5.2.8

To inculcate a healthy hobby or a beneficial lifelong pastime activity
in the lives of students of the College.

5.2.9

To encourage students to think of the underprivileged, and the needy and
to inculcate a feeling of care and sympathy towards them.

5.2.10

To welcome the new students into the College and to orientate them
towards achieving their academic and educational goals effectively.

5.3 Guidelines

5.3.1

All student organisations must be registered with a registration number
assigned by the College.

5.3.2

All student organisations at the College are bound by the policies,
rules and regulations of the College.

5.3.3

Only students enrolled in the College, as full-time students may become
members of the student organisations and participate in the student
activities.

5.4 The Student Council

5.4.1

The Student Council will be advised by an officer appointed by the
College.

5.4.2 The objectives of the Student Council shall be:

5.4.2.1

To plan and organise centre – level activities for the benefit of the
student population.

5.4.2.2

To plan and organise suitable competitions.

5.4.2.3

To represent the student population at various levels as decided by the
College.

5.4.2.4

To bring up student problems & grievances for the attention of the
management of the Centres / College.

5.4.2.5

To help in the orientation programme for new students.

5.4.2.6

To help establish an environment that is conducive to learning with a
holistic development of the students.

5.4.3

The Tenure of the Council will be from 1st January to 31st December of
the same year.

5.4.4 Office – Bearers of the Student Council will be as follows:

5.4.4.1

President

5.4.4.2

Vice-President

5.4.4.3

Secretary

5.4.4.4

Assistant Secretary

5.4.4.5

Treasurer

5.4.4.6

Committee Members

5.4.5 Duties of the Office Bearers

5.4.5.1 President

The President will chair all meetings, and will represent the Student
Council at official functions.

5.4.5.2 Vice-President

The V. President will assume the duties of the president when the
president is unavailable. She will assist the president in the duties of
the Council.

5.4.5.3 Secretary

The Secretary will convene all the meetings of the Council with
consultation of the president and the Marketing/ SSD as the advisor. He
will maintain the minutes of all the meetings and prepare the reports of
all the council activities.

5.4.5.4 Assistant Secretary

The Assistant Secretary will assist the Secretary in his duties, and
will assume the duties of the Secretary in his absence. She will also
co-ordinate Student Forum / grievances.

5.4.5.5 Treasurer

The Treasurer will be responsible to keep a record of all the accounts
of the Council and prepare all financial reports and statements of the
council.

5.4.6

The College may approve the appointment of additional committee members
if a need arises.

5.4.7 The Student Council Committee Meeting.

There should be at least one meeting conducted every semester to discuss
the developments and to monitor and plan the organisation of student
activities.

5.4.8 Meetings of other Student Organisations.

All other student organisations may have their meetings according to
their approved constitutions, and the administration guidelines from the
College.

5.4.9 Student Grievances

The Student Council may seek to meet the College authorities to discuss
student grievances from time to time. The College will assist the
Student Council to arrange such sessions as necessary.

5.4.10 Awards & Certificate

Students who have been active and have contributed positively in the
student organisations of the College may be nominated to receive awards
and certificates of appreciation. Every student organisation may
recommend the list of recipients of awards / certificates to the Student
Council for vetting. The Student Council will send its recommendations
to the Student Services Department for the final approval, preparation
and presentation of the awards.

5.4.11 Other Matters

The College will decide on all matters that are not explicitly stated in
these guidelines, and will amend or add any provision from time to time,
as the need arises.

6. BEHAVIOUR CODE FOR STUDENTS

6.1 Introduction

6.1.1

A student, by voluntarily joining the College, assumes the
responsibility for abiding by the standards that have been instituted by
the College. Students and the student organisations are advised to
understand this code of conduct carefully so they are aware of the
policies that guide the College in its dealings with the students.

6.1.2

As this College functions under the Education Act 1996 and the Private
Higher Educational Institutions Act 1996, the provisions on Student
Discipline enshrined in these Acts will be binding on the conduct of all
the students of this College.

6.2 Responsible Decisions

6.2.1

Students are encouraged to make mature and informed decisions that
reflect a high sense of responsibility.

6.2.2

Such decisions must secure and respect the general condition conducive
to learning at the College.

6.3 Alcohol

6.3.1

Consumption of alcohol within the College premises is prohibited.

6.3.2

Alcoholic beverages will not be served student-sponsored or
student-organisation-sponsored events.

6.4 Computing Services

6.4.1

All computer users must practise ethical behaviour in their computing
activities.

6.4.2

Abuse of computer privileges is considered a serious matter.

6.4.3

Unauthorised entry into a file / network, sending of obscene or abusive
messages will not be tolerated.

6.4.4

Using the computer facilities or services for outside employment or
individual profit is not allowed.

6.4.5

Using the computer to interfere with the work of others etc. is
prohibited.

6.4.6

The College reserves the right to review programmes and files contained
in its computing resources.

6.4.7

The usage of the computing resources will be according to the rules and
procedures laid down.

6.5 Drugs

6.5.1

Students are advised to familiarise themselves with the strict
legislation on drug abuse in Malaysia.

6.5.2

Any student caught taking drugs will be expelled from the College.

6.5.3

Possession of drugs could lead to prosecution in the courts of law and
the imposition of a death sentence.

6.6 Student I.D. Card

6.6.1

I.D. Cards will be issued to all students two weeks after orientation.
Students must wear their I.D. card at all times while at the College
premises, and while attending all College-sanctioned activities,
wherever they may be held.

6.6.2

Where a Centre does not issue the I.D. Card; it has the discretion to
use any alternative mode of identification,

6.6.3

If the I.D. is lost, a replacement may be applied for with the payment
of a levy.

6.6.4

College officials have the right to check the I.D of students.

6.7 Student Dress Code

6.7.1

Students are to maintain a dress code that reflects the sensitivities of
the Malaysian Society, their own self-esteem, and that which is
appropriate to the activities they are involved in.

6.7.2

Revealing attire (such as hot pants, miniskirts, singlet) and attire
printed with offensive or obscene words or pictures are strictly
prohibited.

6.8 Footwear

6.8.1

Footwear of students must be appropriate to the activities.

6.8.2

Slippers are not allowed in the campus area.

6.9 Hair

6.9.1

While the female students are to maintain a simple hair-do that is
conducive to the learning situation, the male students are to maintain
short hair that is well combed at all times.

6.9.2

Dyeing the hair in outrageous colours is not acceptable in the academic
environment

6.10 Attendance and Punctuality

6.10.1

Students are required to be punctual for classes at all times.

6.10.2

Students must ensure that they have full attendance, as failure to
attain 80% Percentage of attendance may bar them from taking their final
examinations.

6.10.3

Punctuality is expected from all students. The following rules apply to
all students for which attendance is taken:
- Students who are 15 minutes late for class will be marked as ‘L’ in
the attendance list for that class. If there are three ‘L’ in the
attendance list for that class, student will be considered as one
absent.

6.10.4

The following approved leave of absence will be considered as part of
80% attendance with proof of related documents;
- Medical certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner
- Compassionate leave (for immediate family) and
- Official leave (eg: representing college in games, official events and
etc)

6.11 Notice Boards / Information Display

6.11.1

Students are expected to update themselves with the latest changes at
the College by reading the notices on the various notice boards in the
College.

6.11.2

Students are not allowed to post, affix or put up any form of printed
materials on College property without proper prior authorization.

6.11.3

All such notices may be sent to the Registrar for approval. Only upon
such approval may the notices be displayed.

6.12 Contact with Parents / Guardian

6.12.1

The College reserves the right to contact the parents / guardians of the
students in cases of emergency or when it feels that such a contact is
necessary for the good of the College and / or the students.

6.12.2

The student is to give the College all the relevant particulars of his
parents / guardian for its reference.

6.13 Disorderly, Violent, Intimidating or Dangerous Behaviour to self and others

6.13.1

Students are not to engage in behaviour that threatens harms or causes
to place in harm themselves or other persons, or to exhibit behaviour
that is illegal, destructive, lewd, indecent, obscene, or disorderly.

6.13.2

Students are to refrain from disrupting the peace, impeding classes,
causing emotional harm or endangering the safety to any person on campus
through actions or words.

6.13.3

Any productions of sound or actions that unreasonably disturb or disrupt
the peace of others or violate the College standards are prohibited.

6.14 Emergency Regulations

6.14.1

The specific emergency regulations and evacuation procedures from the
College buildings must be obeyed at all times for the safety of all.

6.15 Financial Obligations

6.15.1

All students are expected to promptly pay all College fees and all other
financial obligations when due.

6.15.2

If for good reason a student is unable to pay such obligations on time,
she is responsible for contacting the authorities concerned in order to
arrange an extension.

6.15.3

Failure to meet the College financial obligations and deadlines
generally results in the suspension of Registration, withdrawal from
examinations, and the withholding of results / certificates.

6.15.4

Students are advised to familiarise with the latest schedule of fees and
their other financial obligations that are applicable to them at all
times.

6.16 Harassment, Discrimination and Assault.

6.16.1

The College has a deep respect for the dignity of individuals and their
cultures. Students are to uphold this tradition and build on it for a
harmonious and safe environment amongst the College’s community.

6.16.2

Every student is entitled to be in a healthy learning environment that
is free of harassment, discrimination and / or assault behaviour of any
kind.

6.16.3

Such instances may be reported to the College for appropriate action by
the affected students.

6.17 Sales within the College

6.17.1

Selling or soliciting of any kind within the College campus is
prohibited, except with a written approval of the College.

6.17.2

The rule applies also to the venues where the College activities are
held and are under the College’s jurisdiction.

6.18 Smoking

6.18.1

Smoking is prohibited by law in the premises of the College.

6.19 Student Organisations

6.19.1

All student activities must be sanctioned by the College.

6.19.2

Sports Clubs and other general societies must be approved by the
College.

6.19.3

Ad hoc committees to organise one – off events may be formed with the
approval of the College.

6.20 College Property

6.20.1

Students are not allowed to move / remove or damage any property
belonging to the College, the staff or guest from the designated area.

6.21 Travel / Tours

6.21.1

All travel / tour arrangements by student organisations must be
sanctioned by the College.

6.21.2

Travel / tours arranged privately by students should not implicate the
College in any manner.

6.22 Logo / Letterhead / Correspondence

6.22.1

Students and student organisations are not permitted to use the College
logo or the official letterhead without the authorisation of the College
authorities.

6.22.2

All correspondence by students or student organisations with outsiders
on any matter related to the activities at the College must be sent
through the appropriate officers of the College – and must bear the
approval signature of the officer(s) concerned.

6.23 Amendments & Additions

6.23.1

All rules that are amended or newly imposed by the various Government
agencies and are applicable to students will be automatically
enforceable on the students of the College.

6.23.2

The College reserves the right to add, delete or amend these rules and
regulations from time to time as deemed fit.

7. RULES, REGULATIONS & DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES

7.1 Introduction

7.1.1 The Need for Rules and Regulations

Certain regulatory procedures are necessary and have been in place at
the College to ensure that the complex needs of the large student body
are addressed and met, with a balance being struck to ensure that there
is adherence and regulations of student discipline and personal conduct.
Some of these regulations are prescribed in the statutes that govern
Institutions of Higher Learning (Private Higher Education Institutions
Act 1996). Students are required to familiarise themselves with the
following rules and regulations in order to circumvent difficulties that
may arise in the course of their study at Yes International College.

7.1.2 Policy governing Non-discrimination

No person in whatever relationship with Yes International College shall
be subject to discrimination on the basis of age, creed, colour, race,
religion, sex, or marital status.

7.1.3 Definition of “student” for the purpose of this document

For the purposes of this document, a student is defined as a person,
currently enrolled at Yes International College, pursuing a course of
study, whether full-time or part-time.

7.2 Student Discipline - Rules and Procedures

The College has the overall responsibility for the maintenance of
student discipline, with the rules and procedures set out herein.
Students enrolled in a course of study, whether full-time or part-time,
are bound by the College’s rules procedures and regulations. The onus
remains on the students to familiarise themselves with these. Students
are expected to conduct themselves in a responsible manner and to adhere
to the rules and regulations of the College. Students are expected to
conform to policies regulating their conduct generally or specifically
in respect of particular activities.

7.3 Student Misconduct

7.3.1 Definition

Misconduct is defined and includes the following activities: Committing
a criminal offence - (not restricted to the college premises)

Criminal damage, damage and defacement of property - (owned or in the
charge of the college, belonging to students, visitors or guests of the
college), including any wilful, reckless or negligent act or omission
resulting in damage, loss or injury or threat thereof.

Assault

Sexual harassment, racial harassment or other conduct which causes fear
and distress to others.

Threatening, abusive, disorderly or unreasonable behaviour.

Theft, misappropriation of college funds, falsification of records,
documents, certificates or any other document belonging to or in the
possession of the college.

Cheating in examinations

Misconduct may include the act of cheating or attempting to cheat but is
taken to include a broader definition. Examples of actions that
constitute misconduct include the following but the list is by no means
exhaustive:
- Incessant talking in the examination hall
- General disobedience of examination instructions
- Unruly and rowdy behaviour shown towards proctors / lecturers
- Inability in adhering to and aloofness towards examination procedures.

The nature of each misconduct is determined by the members of the Board
of Examiners before a judgment is passed. Where required, the students
involved will be asked to attend an interview for further clarification.
Also, where appropriate, the cases may be referred to the Student
Disciplinary Board for further actions.

Plagiarism

Plagiarism is loosely and broadly defined as the act of submitting
academic work (e.g. assignment, project, dissertation, essays, or other
equivalent written assessment) with the use of the academic work
publicly published and produced by another person for the purpose of
obtaining credit or fulfilling requirements, without the acknowledgement
and consent of that person.

Specifically, Yes International College further defines plagiarism as:
- The inclusion of ideas, words or sentences, paragraphs, in whole or in
parts, from other sources into student’s work without the appropriate
acknowledgement;
- The use of another person’s intellectual work, including computer
programme, photographs, drawing or sketches, research and other
equivalent forms in the student’s own work, attempting intentionally or
otherwise, representing the student’s own work;

Where in doubt, the student is urged to seek clarification from the
Programme Leader or Lecturer prior to submission of such work in order
to avoid being penalised.

As a general rule, the College reserves the right to take disciplinary
action against a student in respect of any misconduct either within the
college campuses or beyond the confines of the College.

Disciplinary action can be instituted against any student based on a
complaint being received by the college that the student in question has
committed misconduct.

7.3.2 Misconduct amounting to a criminal offence

Incidents involving students that amount to a criminal offence being
committed, under the Laws of Malaysia, will as a matter of course be
reported to the police. The College reserves the right to institute
disciplinary proceedings in respect of the same matter and may take the
final decision of the Court into account when determining the penalty to
be imposed on the student.

The College further reserves the right to suspend or in serious matters
expel the student pending the outcome of the case in the Courts.

7.3.3 Discretion to dismiss a complaint

Where a complaint of misconduct has been made, the Principal of the
College may rule that the complaint should not be subject to a hearing
on the matter under these rules and regulations and a decision taken not
to institute formal disciplinary action against the student.

7.4 Procedure for Dealing with Complaints of Misconduct

7.4.1 Informal Stage

All staff, full-time or part-time are required to play an active role in
maintaining student discipline. Students are free to approach any member
of staff at the college and where complaints are of a minor nature, the
matter may be dealt with informally by way of student counselling,
advice or assistance rendered by staff in question. Staff may caution or
warn students in cases of minor misconduct without such warning or
caution being formally noted in the student records.

7.4.2 Formal Stage

Serious misconduct that does not fall within the category described
above in paragraph should be referred to the disciplinary officer for
his or her further action.

7.4.2.1 Formal Stage Procedures

Upon receipt of a complaint of a serious misconduct, the disciplinary
officer is required to carry out a preliminary investigation of the
matter and to prepare a report of his findings. Based on the outcome of
his investigations, if the disciplinary officer is of the opinion that:

7.4.2.1 (i) the matter is not or a serious nature or is no longer in
issue and may be dealt with by a caution of warning, in the light of the
circumstances surrounding the matter, he may decide that the matter does
not warrant a formal hearing and may dispose of the matter by the
exercise of his discretion. The incident is to be noted in the student’s
file and may in some instances be formally noted in his or her academic
records.

7.4.2.1 (ii) the matter is serious enough to warrant suspension or
expulsion, or the need to have the guardians or parents of the student
called in, or that the matter is to be referred to the Principal, the
disciplinary officer will be required to carry out a formal hearing of
the matter and to submit his findings to the Disciplinary Board.

7.4.2.1 (iii) the nature of the offence is so grave or constitutes a
breach of criminal law, a hearing shall be convened and the matter will
once again be raised to the disciplinary board for a formal report to be
lodged with the relevant authorities.

APPENDIX I

PRIVATE HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS ACT 1996 (ACT 555)

PART VIII

DISCIPLINE AND CONDUCT OF STUDENTS

S46 Disciplinary authority in respect of students

(1) The chief executive shall be responsible for the discipline and
    conduct of students in the private higher educational institute.

(2) In the discharge of his duties under subsection (1), the chief
    executive shall comply with and give effect to directions issued by
    the Register General from time to time in respect of the discipline
    and conduct of the students of the private higher educational
    institution.

S47 Prohibition on students associating with political party, unlawful
society, etc.

(1) The constitution of a private higher educational institution shall
    contain prohibitions

(i) On a person, while he is a student of private higher educational
    institution, becoming a member of, or in any manner associating with
    any political party, trade union, society, association,
    organisation, body or group, unless allowed by Registrar General –

(a) whether or not it is established under any law; and

(b) whether it is within or outside Malaysia;

(ii) On any society, association, organisation, body or group of
     students of a private higher educational institution, having any
     association or other dealing whatsoever with any political party,
     trade union, society, association, organisation, body or group,
     unless allowed by the Registrar General –

(a) whether or not it is established under any law; and

(b) whether it is within or outside Malaysia;

(iii) On a person, while he is a student of a private higher educational
      institution, and any society, association, organisation, body or
      group of students or a private higher educational institution
      expressing or doing anything which may be construed as –

(a) expressing support or sympathy with or opposition to any political
    party or trade union; or

(b) expressing support or sympathy with any unlawful society,
    association, organisation, body or group.

(2) Where at any time the constitution does not contain the provisions
    under subsection (1), the Registrar General may order the private
    higher educational institution to include such provision in the
    constitution.

Where the private higher educational institution fails to comply with
the order issued by the Registrar General under subsection (2), the
Registrar General may cancel its registration.

(3) A student who contravenes or fails to comply with the provisions of
    the constitution required to be provided for in the constitution
    under subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on
    conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand Ringgit.

(4) A private higher educational institution shall also be liable for an
    offence under subsection (4) —

(a) for not observing its constitution; and

(b) shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand
    Ringgit,

unless the private higher educational institution satisfies the court —

(aa) that the offence was committed without its knowledge or connivance;
aknd

(bb) that it had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission
of the offence.

(5) The conviction of a private higher educational institution under
    subsection (5) may be a ground for revoking the approval for its
    establishment.

(6) For the avoidance of doubt, the society, association, organisation,
    body and group mentioned in paragraph (1) (a) shall not include any
    students’ society, association, organisation, body and group
    established under the provision of the constitution of the private
    higher educational institution or the constitution of the private
    higher educational institution regulating such establishment.

S48 Criminal liability of office bearers, etc, of students’ association,
etc

(1) Subsection (2) shall apply where an offence has been committed under
    any written law —

(a) whether or not any person has been convicted in respect thereof; of

(b) including where such offence has been committed or purports to have
    been committed in the name or on behalf of, any society,
    association, organisation, body or group of students of a private
    higher educational institution.

(2) Every office-bearer of such society, association, organisation, body
    or group and every person managing or assisting in the management of
    such society, association, organisation, body or group at the time
    of the commission of such offence,

(a) shall be deemed to be guilty of such offence;

(b) Shall be liable to the punishment prescribed by law, unless he
    satisfies the court that the offence was committed with his
    knowledge and that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the
    commission of offence.

(3) As office-bearer of, or a person managing or assisting in the
    management of any society, association, organisation, body or group
    referred to in subsection (2) shall be liable to be prosecuted under
    this section, notwithstanding that he may not have taken part in the
    commission of the offence.

(4) In any prosecution under this section, a document found in the
    possession of

(a) an office-bearer

(b) a person managing or assisting in the management; or

(c) a member,

of such society, association, organisation body or group shall be prima
facie evidence of the contents thereof for the purpose of proving that
anything has been done or purports to have been done by or on behalf of
such society, association, organisation, body or group.

S49 Power of Registrar General to issue directions to suspend or
dissolve a students’ association, etc.

(1) The Registrar General may direct the chief executive to suspend or
    dissolve any students’ society, association, organisation, body or
    group —

(a) If such society, association, organisation, body or group violates
    any provision of any written law.

(b) If such society, association, organisation, body or group violates
    provision of any written law.

(2) The Registrar General may not give a direction under subsection (1)
    until he has considered representations made by the society,
    association, organisation, body or group.

(3) The chief executive shall take immediate action to give effect to
    the directions of the Registrar General under subsection (1), and
    shall within twenty-one days inform the Registrar General of any
    such action so taken by him.

Where discretion of the Registrar General under this section is not
complied with, the Registrar General may cancel the registration of the
chief executive.

S50 Regulations on expulsion of students

The Registrar General may prescribe, after consultation with the
Minister, regulations for the expulsion of students in certain cases.
